[MTM-53448] Announcement of removal od deprecated JWT login mode from… (#1915)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/platform-services/cumulocity-10-20-removal-of-deprecated-jwt-login-mode.md

---
date: ""
title: Removal of deprecated JWT login mode
product_area: Platform services
change_type:
  - value: change-inv-3bw8e
    label: Announcement
component:
  - value: q3kclF6pO
    label: Authentication
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-53448

> version: "10.20"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version: 10.20.0
```

---

> JWT authentication with Cumulocity, which was deprecated in version 10.6, will be removed during Q3 2024 for SaaS instance and 2025 for the annual release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JWT authentication with {{< product-c8y-iot >}} is deprecated since release 10.6 and will be removed in Q3 2024 for the SaaS instances and in 2025 for the yearly releases.
```

> This authentication method should not be confused with SSO or OAI-Secure authentication, which are recommended and still supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This authentication method is not to be confused with SSO (single sign-on) or OAI-Secure authentication, which are both recommended and still supported.
```

> This change will only impact you if your organisation was an early adopter of SSO on Cumulocity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change will only impact you if your organization was an early adopter of SSO on {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.
```

> For customers on public Cloud we will have been in touch with you if you are using this type of authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For customers on the public cloud instances we get in touch with you if you are using this type of authentication.
```

For self-hosted or self-managed instances you need to do the following:

> Ask your Operations Team to run the [script](https://getsupport.softwareag.com/servicedesk/customer/kb/view/429359127). This will verify

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ask your Operations team to run this [script](https://getsupport.softwareag.com/servicedesk/customer/kb/view/429359127). This will verify
```

> whether any tenant collections have an authenticationProviders configuration, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
whether any tenant collections have an `authenticationProviders` configuration and
```

> verify if any tenant has tenant options configured with the category "token.publicKey".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if any tenant has the tenant options configured with the category `token.publicKey`.
```

> If either an “authenticationProvider” configuration or the tenant option "token.publicKey" category exists it will indicate that the deprecated JWT is, or was, used in the past. In this case you need to check your external services for use of the JWT authentication and change it to use either SSO or OAuthSecure. These two approaches provide a better and more secure approach to authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If either an `authenticationProvider` configuration or the tenant option `token.publicKey` category exists this indicates that the deprecated JWT is, or was, used in the past. In this case you need to check your external services for use of the JWT authentication and change it to use either SSO or OAI-Secure. These two methods provide a better and more secure approach to authentication.
```

> These two methods are documented here: using [SSO](https://cumulocity.com/docs/authentication/sso/#configuration) or [authentication with external tokens](https://cumulocity.com/docs/authentication/sso/#configuring-access-tokens).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These methods are documented here: 
- [Single sign-on](https://cumulocity.com/docs/authentication/sso/#configuration)
- [Token generation with OAI-Secure](https://cumulocity.com/docs/authentication/sso/#configuring-access-tokens).
```

---

> date: ""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2024-06-03
```

title: Removal of deprecated JWT login mode
product_area: Platform services
change_type:
  - value: change-inv-3bw8e
    label: Announcement
component:
  - value: q3kclF6pO
    label: Authentication
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-53448
version: 10.20.0
---

> JWT authentication with {{< product-c8y-iot >}} is deprecated since release 10.6 and will be removed in Q3 2024 for the SaaS instances and in 2025 for the yearly releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JWT authentication with {{< product-c8y-iot >}} has been deprecated since release 10.6 and will be removed in Q3 2024 for the SaaS instances and in 2025 for the yearly releases.
```

This authentication method is not to be confused with SSO (single sign-on) or OAI-Secure authentication, which are both recommended and still supported.

> This change will only impact you if your organization was an early adopter of SSO on {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

Reviewer 3: `early adopter ` is very generic. Should we mention which versions or what time frame adopter will be impacted ?

Author: TBH this was introduced in ~9.1 version and I can't say what version it was exactly

Reviewer: then perhaps better say "used an early version of SSO"?

> For customers on the public cloud instances we get in touch with you if you are using this type of authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For customers on the public cloud instances we will get in touch with you if you are using this type of authentication.
```

---
date: ""

> title: Removal of Deprecated JWT login mode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Removal of deprecated JWT login mode
```

product_area: Platform services
change_type:
  - value: change-inv-3bw8e
    label: Announcement
component:
  - value: q3kclF6pO
    label: Authentication
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
ticket: MTM-53448

> version: "10.20"

Reviewer 3: in the ticket target version is 10.17
![image](https://github.com/SoftwareAG/c8y-docs/assets/157797498/b5bb1d53-536a-47cd-87ea-7efa3a5d6dc6)
I think you need to change in ticket

---

> JWT authentication with Cumulocity provider which is deprecated from version 10.6 will be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JWT authentication with Cumulocity provider which is deprecated since version 10.6 will be removed.
```

> The JWT authentication with Cumulocity provider which is deprecated since version 10.6 will be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JWT authentication with Cumulocity provider, which is deprecated since version 10.6, will be removed.
```

> Not to be confused with SSO or OAI-Secure (OAuth-Internal) authentication, which are recommended and still supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not to be confused with SSO or OAI-Secure (OAuth-Internal) authentication, which are recommended and still supported.
```

> Deprecated authentication using JWT token with Cumulocity provider is not supported by UI applications, tokens are generated by the client and not by Cumulocity applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deprecated authentication using JWT token with Cumulocity provider is not supported by UI applications. The tokens are generated by the client and not by the Cumulocity IoT applications.
```

> Tokens are sent to the cumulocity using the Authorization: Bearer header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokens are sent to the the Cumulocity IoT platform using the Authorization: Bearer header.
```

> Tokens are sent to the the Cumulocity IoT platform using the Authorization: Bearer header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokens are sent to the Cumulocity IoT platform using the Authorization: Bearer header.
```

> To verify that in the environment deprecated JWT is not used needs to be verified two things, this must be done by the operations team that has access to the database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the deprecated JWT is not used in your environment follow the 2 steps below. This must be done by the operations team that has access to the database:
```

> 1. Verify in the management database in tenants' collections any not empty authenticationProviders configuration exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify if any empty authenticationProviders configuration exists in the management database in the tenants' collections.
```

> 1. Verify if any empty authenticationProviders configuration exists in the management database in the tenants' collections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Verify if any empty `authenticationProviders` configuration exists in the management database in the tenants' collections.
```

> 2. Verify if any tenant has configured tenant options with the category "token.publicKey".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify if any tenant has configured the tenant options with the category "token.publicKey".
```

> 2. Verify if any tenant has configured the tenant options with the category "token.publicKey".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Verify if any tenant has configured the tenant options with the category `token.publicKey`.
```

> If the “authenticationProvider” or tenant option with the "token.publicKey" category exists it may indicate that a deprecated jwt is or was used in the past.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the “authenticationProvider” or tenant option with the "token.publicKey" category exists it may indicate that a deprecated JWT is or was used in the past.
```

> If the “authenticationProvider” or tenant option with the "token.publicKey" category exists it may indicate that a deprecated JWT is or was used in the past.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the `authenticationProvider` configuration or a tenant option with the `token.publicKey` category exists it may indicate that a deprecated JWT is or was used in the past.
```

> In that case, check whether external services do not use this type of authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, check that external services do not use this type of authentication.
```

> Please note that all usages of 'deprecated jwt' can be replaced with the currently supported authentication login method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that all usages of the deprecated JWT can be replaced with the currently supported authentication login method
```

> using [SSO](https://cumulocity.com/guides/users-guide/administration/#configuring-single-sign-on) or [authentication with external tokens](https://cumulocity.com/guides/users-guide/administration/#configuring-authentication-with-oauth2-access-tokens-from-authorization-servers).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using [SSO](/authentication/sso/) or [authentication with external tokens](/authentication/basic-settings/#token-generation-with-oai-secure).
```

Reviewer: Please always refer to our latest documentation.
